# School Allocation System

A web application designed to automate and streamline the allocation of eighth-grade students to high schools, based on their grades and preferences. It employs a robust Ruby on Rails backend paired with a responsive React frontend to deliver an efficient, user-friendly experience.

## Features

- **Automated Allocation**: Automatically assigns students to high schools, with admin control to set allocation dates.
- **User Authentication**: Utilizes Devise and Devise-Jwt with HTTP-only cookies for secure user authentication.
- **Real-Time Updates**: Employs React with TanStack Query and Axios to provide real-time updates and an interactive user experience.
- **Async Jobs and Notifications**: Uses Sidekiq and Redis for efficient handling of asynchronous jobs and deadline notifications.
- **Role-Based Access Control**: Implements CanCanCan for adept management of role permissions.
- **Testing**: Incorporates RSpec, FactoryBot, and Faker for comprehensive testing of the Ruby on Rails backend.

## Branches

- **main**: Implements the MVC pattern with Rails views.
- **heroku-deployment**: Configured for deployment on Heroku, utilizing PostgreSQL.
- **rails-react**: Features a React frontend with controllers rendering JSON for API responses.

## Getting Started

### Seeding the Database

The application comes with a predefined seed file to populate the database with initial data, making the environment ready for allocation. You can seed the database using the following command:

```sh
bin/rails db:seed
```

This will create sample data, including users (with an admin account), and set the environment to an allocation-ready state. The admin can log in using the following credentials:
```sh
Email: admin@admin.com
Password: 123456
```
Students and Preferences
350 student accounts are created with random preferences for school specializations, ready for the allocation process.

## Running the Application
**Using the main Branch (MVC Pattern)**

## Running the Application

### Using the main Branch (MVC Pattern)

Follow these steps to get the application running locally:

1. **Clone the Repository**
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/CristiCM/school-allocation-system.git
    ```
   
2. **Navigate to the Project Directory**
    ```sh
    cd school_allocation
    ```
   
3. **Set Up the Database**
    ```sh
    bin/rails db:migrate
    bin/rails db:seed
    ```

4. **Start the Rails Server**
    ```sh
    bin/rails s
    ```

5. **Access the Application**
   - Open your web browser and navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

6. **Login**
    - Admin:
        - Email: admin@admin.com
        - Password: 123456
    - Or use a student account generated by the seed file.

7. **Explore**
    - Interact with the application's features using the React frontend and Rails API backend.

Enjoy the application!
